# Theme
Internal NPM Packages vs External NPM Packages

# Objectives (Slack out to students, have unique students read each one and Instructor makes a comment after each one being read)

* Students will use an internal Node Package called fs to read, write, etc to files
* Students will use an external Node Package called request to hit the omdbapi and retrieve movie information
* Students will be able to explain the differences between an internal Node Package and an external Node Package

### 1. Student do (10 minutes)

Please slack me the answer when you're done. I will give feedback during the next in class exercise.

If you don't have anything then slack me the problem so I know exactly what to help you with after class.

Slack this out:

"Make a command line Node app that takes in two arguments and returns true if they are both equal to each other"

Bonus:
"Make another command line Node app that takes in two numbers as arguments and returns true if they are both multiples of 7"


### 6. Partners do (10 minutes)

Make a file called best_things_ever.txt

inside put this in with no extra whitespace or lines:

```
lazy boy recliner, massage, meditation, hot shower, cheese fondue, hot coffee with cashew milk, kitten falling asleep on my lap
```
	
Make a command line app that reads what's inside best_things_ever.txt and outputs each thing on a new line in the terminal. Do not output the commas.


### 8. Student do (10 minutes)

Make a command line app that takes an argument (the name of a text file - could be any text file), reads the contents inside of the file and console.logs that to the terminal screen

Slack me whatever you have by the end of the 10 minutes so I can send feedback to you during the next exercise.

If you don't have anything then slack me the problem so I know exactly what to help you with after class.


### 18. Partners do (15 minutes)

Create bank.txt

add this in:
```
1, 2.33, 4.23, -2
```

Make a command line node app called bank.js that will do the following:

this outputs the total you have in your bank account
```
node bank.js total
```

this deposits 4.4 in so bank.txt gets 4.4 appended to the list
```
node bank.js deposit 4.4
```

this withdraws 4.4 from the bank.txt file
```
node bank.js withdraw 3.2
```

Bonus:

this withdraws .25 from the bank.txt file, but gives a 10% chance of a free deposit of 2
```
node bank.js lotto
```

```Solution
var fs = require('fs');

var action = process.argv[2];
var value = process.argv[3];

switch(action){
	case 'total':
		total();
		break;
	case 'deposit':
		deposit();
		break;
	case 'withdraw':
		withdraw();
		break;
	case 'lotto':
		lotto();
		break;
}

function total(){
	fs.readFile('./bank.txt', "utf8", function(err, data){
		data = data.split(', ');
		var result = 0;
		
		for (var i = 0; i < data.length; i++){
			result+= parseFloat(data[i]);
		}
		
		console.log("You have a total of " + result.toFixed(2));
	});
}

function deposit(){
	fs.appendFile('bank.txt', ", " + value);

	console.log("Deposited " + value + ".");
}

function withdraw(){
	fs.appendFile('bank.txt', ", -" + value);

	console.log("Withdrew " + value + ".");
}

function lotto(){
	fs.appendFile('bank.txt', ", -.25");

	var chance = Math.floor((Math.random() * 10) + 1);
	
	console.log(chance);
	
	if (chance === 1){
		fs.appendFile('bank.txt', ", 2");
		console.log("Congrats you won the lottery!");
	} else{
		console.log("Deposited .25...... You did not win.");
	}
}

```


# Copyright
Rutgers Coding Boot Camp (C) 2015. All Rights Reserved.