# Have you read the Instructor Guide?

You should before you teach anyone anything.

Have a question? It's probably in the Instructor Guide.

look at this file at the root of the repository:
[Instructor Guide](https://github.com/RutgersCodingBootcamp/All-Lesson-Plans/blob/master/instructor_guide)

# Objectives (Slack out to students, have unique students read each one and Instructor makes a comment after each one being read)

1. slack out the objectives to the students, and call on random students to read them outloud. *Make a comment about each objective after a person reads it.*

1. in class repo for your section, make a new folder for this week and day.

1. open up that folder in Sublime Text

1. make an objectives.txt file in that folder

1. copy these objectives into that objectives.txt file and save it, commit it, push it up.

* keep the file open while the students are reading the objectives
  * Students will create an App using Node.js server to connect MySQL database and send data to the page using Express.
  * Students will see why it's difficult to server a web page generated by only using Javascript.
  * Students will practice using handlebar to server pages.

# Theme:
Sequelize Introduction

--------- --------- ---------

### 1. Instructor Explain (15 minutes)
* What is an ORM?
* Purpose of an ORM?
* How an ORM makes your life substantially easier.

### 2. Instructor Do (15 minutes)
See https://github.com/RutgersCodingBootcamp/All-Lesson-Plans/tree/master/week-15-sequelize/exercise1-solution

### 3. Student Do (30 minutes)
* Create an `express` / `handlebars` / `node.js` / `mysql` app with 3 views
  * Register - don't let someone with the same email register twice
    * The registration should have a first name and last name
  * Login
  * Secret Page
    * On the secret page, display the first and last name of the user
* Only an authenticated user can see the secret page (remember sessions and
  middleware?)

** Instructor type out partial solution every 10 minutes **

### 4. Instructor Do (30 minutes)
See https://github.com/RutgersCodingBootcamp/All-Lesson-Plans/tree/master/week-15-sequelize/exercise2-solution

-- 15 minute break -- (total including break: 105 minutes)

### 5. Student Do (25 minutes)
* Create a new DB
* Change your app to use Sequelize models

### 6. Instructor Do (20 minutes)
See https://github.com/RutgersCodingBootcamp/All-Lesson-Plans/tree/master/week-15-sequelize/exercise3-solution

### 7. Student Do (25 minutes)
* Create an app that lets you create persons using Sequelize
* Add a form that lets you add multiple Alter Ego's to the person

** Instructor type out partial solution every 10 minutes **

### 8. Everyone Do ( 5 minutes )
* Go over the instructions for the homework assignment*

# Copyright
Coding Boot Camp (C) 2016. All Rights Reserved.
