# Theme
Zen of Coding

# Objectives (Slack out to students, have unique students read each one and Instructor makes a comment after each one being read)

* Students will be able to get to know their classmates, Instructor, TA's, and Support Team.
* Students will resolve any issues regarding pre-work / setting up the students' computers.
* Students will understand the course structure.
* Students will learn common Terminal (Mac) / Console (Windows) commands to set up your folder/file structure to create your first HTML page.
* Students will be able to use common Terminal (Mac) / Console (Windows) commands for web development.
* Students will learn how to set up a basic HTML document.
* Students will be able to set up a basic HTML document.
* Students will get familiar with Chrome DevTools.

### 6. Student do (10 minutes)
* SLACK THE FOLLOWING: From the Terminal/Console and using only the command line, create the following:
  * A new folder
  * A new HTML file
  * Open the current folder containing the new HTML file.

### BONUS
* Create multiple directories/folders in one command.
* Create multiple files in one command in the current directory.


### 9. Students Do (20 minutes)
* SLACK THE FOLLOWING: In your new HTML file, create the basic structure of an HTML document and include the following in it:
  * DOCTYPE declaration
  * Head tag with a title tag
  * H1 tag with a title of your choice
  * Embed an image
  * Create the following three links on your page:
    * One link opens a new tab when clicked on.
    * Make the second link bold.
    * Stub the third link so it goes nowhere.

### BONUS
* Create an ordered list.
* Create an unordered list.
* Create a table to organize information.
* Use an alternate way of separating links without the line breaks.
* Embed a Youtube video.

### 11. Students Do (10 minutes)
* Right-click on any element in their newly created HTML file and click on the `Inspect` option.
* Navigate to the `Elements` tab and focus specifically on the HTML markup inside.
* Hover over the HTML markup and observe the page as it highlights the corresponding rendered parts.

